(uptempo music)
In the last video, we looked at how you
sort of get these line names for free
when you already make areas.
However, if you would like to name your lines
specific names, that's totally doable as well.
So, let's look at an example for that.
Open up 15, Naming Lines, Start.
So, I've already given you some base grid here.
This is a similar example we did in the past,
where one per unit, 500 pixels in the middle,
and one free unit on the right.
And then I have 10 columns, they're all auto-sized
and then, after that, they turn into implicit rows,
sorry rows not columns.
Now, if I wanted to take, let's take my item three
and let's just give it a background of pale goldenrod.
Oh, that's ugly.
Let's get something else.
Slate blue.
Beautiful.
Okay, let's say I wanted to take that item three
and I wanted to put it in the middle
and then span all the way to the top.
What I could do is use the track numbers
to put exactly where I would want it to go.
So, Grid Column.
I could say start at two.
And that's going to put it there.
I could say Grid Row.
I want to start at Row one.
That will put it up there.
And then, I also want it to go as high as 10,
so will say Span 10.
And that will make it go 10 high.
So that's what I'm looking for,
but we can also name these lines
rather than just using numbers.
So, the way that you do that is, again,
the lines are not the columns themselves,
they are the sort of the lines
in between the columns though.
One, two, three, four
wouldn't it be nice if those had names?
And the way that you can name your lines,
is by using square brackets when you define your column.
So, I'm going to say, this could be the Sight Left
and then, the one in between that,
I'm going to say that is the Content Start,
and then after that, I'm going to say
that is the Content End.
And then finally, at the very end,
I'm going to say Sight Right
and that will name my lines as we go from here to there.
Same things with the template rows.
I could say something like Content Top.
I could stick 10 columns inside of there
and then at the bottom of those 10 columns,
I'll say Content Bottom.
And what that'll do is it will name the lines.
You can still use the numbers in addition to the lines,
but sometimes it's nicer just to be able to
refer to the lines, especially if you're going to be
changing them at a later point in a media query.
So, give that a Save here.
Now I want to change this over.
I would want the grid column to start
at this one. Content Start.
So, I would just change that to Content Start.
And it doesn't change anything,
maybe I'll comment this out so we can see here.
And then I want the grid row to start at the Content Top
because that was our, that's this line right here.
Say Content Top.
And I want it to end at the Content Bottom,
which is 10 rows down, down here.
So, Content Bottom.
And again, these Dot Dash Tops and Dash Bottoms,
these are not magic as the start and end,
where in the last one,
these are just line names that I've created myself.
So, give that a Save.
There we go.
Now it's Spanning from the Content Start to Content End
and all the way to the bottom.
One other thing you should know about that is,
you can assign multiple values here
because sometimes you might also want to say
this is the Sidebar
Start Site as well.
It's both the start of the sidebar
and the start of the site.
And then, when you start the content,
it's both the sidebar and the content start, right?
Sometimes you need to name them multiple things at once.
So, this can get pretty hairy,
just feel free to put them on their own lines
so you can visualize it a little bit easier.
Again, the dev tools don't show you the names of the lines,
but maybe that'll be something that's coming
in the future.
I would really like to see that.
So, now that we know that,
let's look at our grid auto-flow dense,
which is something I've really been looking forward to.
(upbeat music)